{{DEFAULTSORT:Carr, Frederick }}
{{Infobox person
| honorific_prefix   = 
| name          = Frederick A. Carr
| honorific_suffix   = 
| image         = 
| alt           = 
| caption       = 
| birth_name    = 
| birth_date    = 28 May 1883
| birth_place   = 
| death_date    = 1 August 1941 
| death_place   = 
| death_cause   = 
| nationality   = 
| other_names   = 
| occupation    = 
| organization  = 
| party         = 
| movement      = 
| boards        = 
| monuments   =  Listed,  [[Workers' Memorial, Port Adelaide|Workers' Memorial]]
| years_active  =
| known_for     = 
| notable_works =
| footnotes     = 
}}


==Life==

==Legacy==

==External links==

==Sources==
===Port Adelaide Library:===

Frederick Alfred Carr	
:Name added to the west side of the Workers Memorial between 1941 – 1968
:He was nominated by the

Fred was born May 28 1883 and died August 1 1941.  He married Charlotte Lindstrom in 1904, they had 11 children and lived in Russell Street, Finsbury Park.

Fred was a Freemason.

He was State Representative and Secretary of Port Adelaide Waterside Workers Union and a member of the Australian Labor Party who strived to improve the working conditions of the ordinary person.

He was a talented pianist who played mainly classical music.

WATERSIDE’ WORKERS. Unemployment Distress.
Mr. F A Carr (Secretary of the Port Adelaide branch; of the Waterside Workers) is greatly concerned over the position of some of the families of members through lack of work. One man, who has done nothing for nine weeks, will be turned out of his residence with his wife and children on Saturday, with no prospect of getting a roof over their heads. Others have the same experience pending. Mr. Carr suggested that the authorities might be persuaded to take steps to secure one or two of the big buildings formerly used in the district as hotels, and to allot two rooms to each family which is placed in these unfortunate circumstances, until such time as the breadwinners of the families can obtain employment and rent another. Thursday 6 December 1928

RELIEVING DISTRESS AT PORT ADELAIDE.
Owing to the recent waterside strike, many families at Port Adelaide have suffered, the distress in some cases being acute. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has endeavored to assist those urgently in need. A large sum was presented to the council by a leading Melbourne sportsman, and portion of this sum, a cheque for £100 was yesterday handed by Mr. T. P. Howard to Mr. F. Carr at the Trades Hall. Adelaide. THE AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL OF TRADE UNIONS ASSISTS. (Includes photo with Carr and Bardolph) Saturday 22 December 1928

WHARF WORK 
Government Enquires Into Alleged Discrimination 
REPORT ON MONDAY
THE conferences’ begun in March between representatives of the shipping companies and the Waterside Workers Federation on the more equitable distribution of work on the waterfront, between the free labourers and Federation members, will be resumed on Monday afternoon…

Report on Investigation after the conferences, the parties submitted a report to the Premier. He undertook to have an investigation made and the books of the bureau checked to ascertain if the allegations of the employees were true. When that had been done, he would again call the parties together. Monday’s meeting will receive the Premier’s report on those enquiries into the engagement of free labour at Port Adelaide. So far the parties have not received any indication of the nature of that report. Shipowners will be represented by Messrs. D. W. Phillips (Huddart,. Parker Co.), Bruce (William Crosby & Co.), Callard (Gibbs, Bright, & Co.), and Hill (Adelaide Steamship Co.). Delegates from the Waterside Workers' Federation will probably be Messrs. J J. Morrison, J. Martin, F. Carr, R Whitfield, and W. O’Dea.  Saturday 8 June 1929

WATERSIDE WORKERS
NOT AFFILIATED WITH THE LABOR PARTY
In view of the approaching Labor Party plebiscites special interest is taken in the position of the Waterside Workers’ Federation at Port Adelaide. Mr. F. A Carr has been nominated for the plebiscite to select a successor to his brother the late Hon. J. Carr), and is eligible because he is a member of a local committee, but unless a change is made the members of the federation at Port Adelaide will not be entitled to vote in the plebiscite. The secretary of the Labor Party (Mr. F. F. Ward) stated on Tuesday that the Waterside Workers Federation had decided to withdraw its affiliation with the Labor Party by letter on December 10, 1928. In the letter it was stated that the withdrawal was to take place forth with. It was further added that the executive of the union had re commended strongly to members that they should join the local committees of the Labor Party. Mr. Ward said the executive was aware that he had endeavored to persuade the union to continue its affiliation if only for a few members. It would preserve continuity of membership, and entitle the union to representation at the council meetings and conferences of the party. The union could then have increased the number of members for whom union sustentation fees were paid. As the Waterside Workers’ Federation was among the foundation bodies of the Labor Party he regretted its withdrawal. The executive pf the party met last night, when the position was discussed, and a report will be made to the council of the party on Thurs day night.
July 29 1929

WATERSIDE CONFERENCE LIKELY
Men Ask Premier To Act 
The Premier (Mr. Butler) had a long discussion yesterday with representatives of the Waterside Workers’ Federation and the Port Adelaide Trades and Labour Council about conditions of employment along the waterfront. Those present were the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. ‘Hill) – and Messrs. Condon, M.L.C.. Jonas, M.P., J. J. Morrison (president of the federation), F. A Carr (secretary), J. Bitz, J E. Stephens, und J. S. Verran. The men requested the intervention of the Premier. A conference will be called with the State Shipowners Committee. 
Saturday 31 August 1929

WATERSIDERS PLIGHT
Legislation Sought LABOR CAUCUS AND COMMITTEE CONFER
Last night the State Parliamentary Labor Party held a, special caucus meeting to consider the position on the waterfront. The Combined Disputes Committee will meet again this morning to receive the reply from the caucus. When the Combined Disputes Committee met the Labor caucus at Parliament House in the morning, the Premier (Mr. L. L. Hill) occupied the chair. Suggestions were made for overcoming the disagreement by administration, regulation, or legislation. The representatives of the Disputes Committee’ who placed the facts before the caucus were Messrs. P. A. Elliott and F. Goring (officials of the Disputes Committee), and Messrs. F. Carr, R. Whitfield, and S. Fry (representing the Waterside Workers Federation). There was a general discussion, in which sympathy was expressed with the waterside workers. While steps have been taken to Induce the Commonwealth Government to utilise the Transport Workers Act in the interests of the original waterside workers, it is believed in the individual States that the local authorities may assist, by taking independent action although it is admitted that all the men (including the volunteers) are working under a Federal award, and any decision from the Federal Court or the Federal Government might override any action taken by a State authority. The difficulty locally has been to Indicate in which direction the State Government can take any action calculated to help to rehabilitate the waterside workers. One of the most serious obstacles has been to ascertain the actual number of men working as volunteers on the waterfront who may be classed as the original volunteers. It is believed the waterside workers are prepared to negotiate for a settlement on terms which will recognise the promise of preference given to the men who volunteered before October of 1928 for work on the waterfront. Thursday 2 October 1930

QUIET ON WATERFRONT - RATIONING SCHEME INITATED
The scheme for rationing the work on the waterfront at Port was begun yesterday, but there was little shipping to be handled, and no appreciable change was noticeable in the position generally. Waterside workers were employed In the discharge of a collier yesterday, and further gangs relieved their colleagues at night. They will complete: the discharge to-day. Several gangs of watersiders will also be engaged on the Minnipa this morning.  The sub-committee appointed by the Combined Disputes Committee of the Adelaide and Port Adelaide Trades and Labor Councils (Messes. F. Carr, and S Fry) waited on the Premier and informed him that the committee had endorsed the action of the Government in connection with the trouble and pressed for immediate action on the lines indicated by the special meeting of the Labor caucus. The committee will meet at the Trades Hall on Monday morning.
Saturday 4 October 1930
Unemployed Port Women Members of the Port Adelaide Unemployed Workers Wives Committee entertained at a concert and tea at the Working Men’s Hall, Nile-street, Port Adelaide, yesterday afternoon, nearly 300 women in celebration of the first anniversary of the committee. The secretary of the Waterside Workers’ Federation (Mr. F. Carr), presided, and Mr. Jonas, MP. And Mrs. Jonas addressed the gathering. A large birthday cake was cut by Mr. Jonas, who also presented to the president of the committee (Mrs. M. Mullins), on behalf of the committee and the local unemployed, a set of brushes in recognition of her activities for the past year. Afternoon tea was provided. Musical items were rendered by Messrs. G. J. Brown and S. Cooper and Misses Marjorie Adams. Beryl, Freeman, Phyllis Naismith, Doreen Freeman and Eileen Gardner.
Wednesday 19 August 1931

DISTRIBUTION OF WHARF WORK
Watersiders Conceded Some Requests
In a statement issued after the conference yesterday between representatives of the shipowners and the Waterside Workers’ Federation, regarding the distribution of work on the wharfs at Port Adelaide, the chairman (Major N. P. Owen) said that certain of the requests of the union had been, in a measure, agreed to, some had been deferred for further investigation, and some could not be granted. The conference, which was held in the board-room of the Adelaide Steam ship Company, was attended by Major Owen, Messrs. A. D. Hill, B. M. Church, and E. C. Harvey representing the shipowners, and Messrs. B. Con Ton, R. Fry. F. Carr, R. Whitfield, E. Turner, G. Fisher. F. O’Dea and W. McNeil, representing the Waterside Workers’ Federation. The meeting was an amicable one, and all sides of the question were discussed thoroughly. Although they would not make a statement, the repre entatives of the union said that a lot of good had been done. The opinion was expressed that if employers and employees met more often many misunderstandings might be avoided. Major Owen said that the delegates would report the result of the conference to their respective organisations. Until that had been done no further announcement could be made. August 24 1933

Workmen’s Compensation Act
Mr. F Carr, secretary of the Port Adelaide’ branch of the Waterside Workers’ Federation, submitted the following motion: That this conference Instructs the Labor Members of Parliament to consider the advisableness of inserting in the Workmen’s Compensation Act the following “That where a workman who is single, dies as the result of an injury and leaves a widowed Mother or Parents, who are not totally dependent on the deceased person, the parent or parents shall receive not less a sum than £400. Mr. Whitfeld (Waterside Workers Federation) seconded the motion, which was carried. 
Thursday 19 September 1935

Appointment of Delegate to Labor Conference
The A.L.P. Council last night appointed the secretary of the Miscellaneous Workers’ Union (Mr. S. O’Flaherty) as a delegate to the Federal triennial Labor Conference, in place of the State organiser of the Liquor Trade Employees’ Union (Mr. F. Walsh), who indicated that he would not be able to act. It was decided, on the motion of the secretary of the Port Adelaide branch of the Waterside Workers’ Federation (Mr. F. Carr) that the executive of the party should consider proposals for overcoming the displacement of elderly and middle-aged men from industry with a view to bringing the matter before the attention of the Federal Labor Conference.
Friday 10 July 1936

Coachmakers Support Waterside Workers
Members of the Coachmakers’ Union were addressed at the Trades Hall last night on the preference system of employment which it is proposed to introduce on the waterfront. The speakers were Messrs. F. Carr (secretary of the Waterside Workers’ Federation). B. O’Neill (secretary of the Seamen’s Union), and R. Whitfleld (vigilance officer of the Seamen’s Union). The coachmakers assured the union of their wholehearted support in resisting the introduction of the system.  Friday 17 July 1936 

CARR- The friends of the late Mr. Frederick Alfred Carr late secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation Port Adelaide are taker. Funeral Parlors. 171-173 Port Rd.. Al berton. Phone J1255. 

ADELAIDE Lodge No. 2.—The Brethren of the above lodge are requested to attend the funeral of our late Brother Frederick Carr leaving his late residence No 29 Russell St Finsbury Park on Sunday at 3 pm for the Cheltenham Cemetery. By order W M 

1938 – Secretary for the Watrside Worders Federation – argued for a hospital in the area as the cost of transport to the city several times a week was difficult for the poor.

PORT ADELAIDE Mark Lodge. No 3. 
The brethren are requested to attend the funeral of our late Bro F A Carr leaving his late residence Russell Street Finsbury Park Adelaide Branch— Members of the above are requested to assemble at the residence of our late secretary Frederick Alfred Carr 
Saturday 2 August 1941 Funeral notice



Information from Heather Reid
Newspaper articles

===Contemporary press clippings:===
<br>



{{Template:Names on the Workers' Memorial, Port Adelaide}}
[[Category:Names on the Workers' Memorial]]
[[Category:People of Port Adelaide]]